Remote MCP documentation (#452)
directus/docs: content/guides/10.ai/1.mcp/0.index.md

---
title: Overview

> description: Connect AI assistants directly to your Directus instance. Let Claude, ChatGPT, and other AI tools read and write your content without manual copy-pasting.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Connect AI assistants directly to your Directus instance. Let Claude, ChatGPT, and other AI tools manage your content without manual copy-pasting.
```

---

<!-- TODO: Add video
<div style="position: relative; padding-bottom: 56.25%; height: 0; overflow: hidden; max-width: 100%; border-radius: 12px;">
  <iframe src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/mJiLiUGh9r8" style="position: absolute; top: 0; left: 0; width: 100%; height: 100%; border-radius: 12px;" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div> -->

AI assistants can now directly access your Directus content using the [Model Context Protocol](https://modelcontextprotocol.io/introduction) (MCP). Instead of copying data back and forth, your AI tools connect directly to your Directus instance.

::callout{icon="material-symbols:info" color="info"}
**MCP is currently in Beta and requires Directus v11.12 +**. For older versions, use the [Local MCP alternative](/guides/ai/mcp/local-mcp).
::

> ## Is this for you?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How can this help me?
```

Reviewer: This also seems to be a shortened duplicated of the `what-you-can-do-with-the-directus-mcp-server` section

Common issues and solutions when setting up and using the Directus MCP server.
:::

:::card{title="Local Alternative" icon="material-symbols:dns" to="/guides/ai/mcp/local-mcp"}
Node.js-based MCP server for advanced setups and older Directus versions.
:::

::

---

## What you can do with the Directus MCP Server?

### For Content Editors

**Use LLMs and AI to create and manage content.**

- Import blog posts from Google Docs with proper field mapping
- Build landing pages using page builder components and relationships
- Add metadata to individual images (alt text, descriptions, tags)
- Organize files into logical folder structures
- Create content entries with proper relationships to authors, categories, etc.

### For Developers
**Rapidly prototype data models and build automation using natural language.**

- Create collections with proper field types and validation rules
- Set up complex relationships (M2O, O2M, M2M, M2A) between collections
- Generate automation flows triggered by database events
- Build approval workflows with custom operations
- Prototype entire data models through conversation

---

## How it works

1. Enable MCP in Directus Settings → AI

> 2. Create access token for your MCP user (we recommend creating a dedicated user for MCP operations)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Generate an access token for your MCP user (we recommend creating a dedicated user for MCP operations)
```
